REPRODUCIBLE
The Big Book of Tools for Collaborative Teams in a PLC at Work © 2020 Solution Tree Press • SolutionTree.com 
Visit go.SolutionTree.com/PLCbooks  to download this free reproducible.
Five Fundamental Resources  
What We Want Students to Learn
Sample: SMART Goal Worksheet—American Government
School: John Adams High School     Team Name: American Government     Team Leader: Tom Botimer
Team Members: Dan Hahn, Andy Bradford, Nick Larsen, Helen HarveyDistrict Goal(s): 
1.We will increase student achievement and close the achievement gap in all areas using a variety of indicators to document improved learning on
the part of our students.
2.We will provide more students with access to our most rigorous curriculum in each subject area and grade level.
School Goal(s): We will increase by at least 10 percent the number of students earning credit in—
1.Advanced placement courses
2.Capstone courses in a departmental sequence
Team SMART Goal Strategies and 
Action StepsWho Is Responsible Target Date or 
TimelineEvidence of Effectiveness
Our Current Reality: All 
students must complete a semester of American Government as a gradua-tion requirement. Last year, only 10 percent of the grad -
uating class fulfilled that requirement by enrolling in advanced placement (AP) American Government.We will make a presen-tation in each section of United States History, encouraging students to enroll in AP American Government and listing the advantages for doing so.The team leader will coordinate the schedule for these presen-tations with the team leader for United States History. Each member of the team will assist in making these presentations and will distribute a written list of advantages created by the team.Presentations will be completed by the end of January prior to students registering for their courses for next year.The presentation has been made in every United States History class.
page 1 of 2

REPRODUCIBLE
The Big Book of Tools for Collaborative Teams in a PLC at Work © 2020 Solution Tree Press • SolutionTree.com 
Visit go.SolutionTree.com/PLCbooks  to download this free reproducible.Five Fundamental Resources  
What We Want Students to Learn
Team SMART Goal Strategies and 
Action StepsWho Is Responsible Target Date 
or TimelineEvidence of Effectiveness
Our SMART Goal: 
At least 20 percent of the current junior class will enroll in advanced placement American Government and earn a score of 3, 4, or 5 on the advanced placement American Government exam by the end of next school year.We will coordinate with the guidance department to ensure that when counselors register students for classes, they encourage any student who receives an A at the end of the first semester of United States History to enroll in AP American Government.The team leader will attend the counselors’ team meeting to enlist their support, explain advantages of the AP program, and share the team’s strategies for sup-porting students in AP American Government. End of the first semesterMinutes of meeting
We will advise parents of the benefits of AP American Government. The team will draft a letter to parents of students who earn an A in United States History at the end of the semester. The letter will list the advantages of completing this course while in high school for any student planning on attending col-lege. It will also include the team’s strategy to provide students with additional support. The team will also create a flyer on the benefits of the AP program to be distrib-uted during parent open house.The flyer will be cre-ated for distribution at the open house 
in early October. The 
letter will be sent at 
the end of the first semester.Completed documents
We will create study groups to review material prior to the comprehensive assess-ments we administer every six weeks.The team will create the common comprehensive assessments. Each member will be responsible for conducting one study group to help students review for these tests. Study groups will be held on three evenings in the week prior to the test.Ongoing throughout the semesterCompletion of common assessments and student performance on common assessments
The number of students 
earning honor grades on the AP exam in American Government will double last year’s total.
Source: DuFour, R., DuFour, R., Eaker, R., Many, T. W., & Mattos, M. (2016). Learning by doing: A handbook for Professional Learning Communities at Work (3rd ed.) . 
Bloomington, IN: Solution Tree Press.
page 2 of 2