REPRODUCIBLE
The Big Book of Tools for Collaborative Teams in a PLC at Work © 2020 Solution Tree Press • SolutionTree.com 
Visit go.SolutionTree.com/PLCbooks  to download this free reproducible.Additional Resources  
What We Want Students to Learn
Sample: Essential Standards Chart—Second-Grade Mathematics
What Is It We Expect Students to Learn?
Grade: Subject: Semester: Team Members:
Description of 
Standard Example of Rigor Prerequisite Skills When Taught Common Summative AssessmentExtension Standards
What is the  
essential standard to be learned? Describe in student-friendly vocabulary.What does  proficient student work look like? Provide an example and/or description.What prior knowl-edge, skills, and/or vocabulary are needed for a student to mas-ter this standard?When will this stan-dard be taught?What assessment(s)  
will be used to measure student mastery?What will we do when students have already learned this standard?
I can compare whole numbers to 1,000 by using symbols <, =, >.Example: What goes in the box to make this problem correct?
62   21 + 31
< > = +I know the place value of digits from 1 to 1,000.
I understand key 
words: greater than, less than, fewer, least, and most.September CFAs designed by the second-grade team are administered halfway through and at the com-pletion of the unit.I can compare money written in decimal form.
I can use commuta-tive and associative rules to simplify addition and check my answers.Example: Which prob-lem can you use to check your answer for 9 + 5 = 14?
13 – 5 = 914 – 9 = 55 + 9 = 14I understand rela-
tionships within fact families.October Same as above I can use commuta-tive and associative rules to simplify mul-tiplication and check my answers.
page 1 of 2

REPRODUCIBLE
The Big Book of Tools for Collaborative Teams in a PLC at Work © 2020 Solution Tree Press • SolutionTree.com 
Visit go.SolutionTree.com/PLCbooks  to download this free reproducible.
Additional Resources  
What We Want Students to Learn
I can add and subtract 
multidigit numbers with regrouping.Examples:
a. 638 + 734 =
b. Jose gathered 714
stickers and thengave 476 away tohis friends. Howmany stickers doeshe have left?
c.  345
465+
387149−I can follow steps 
when regrouping.
I can count on 
and back.
I can recognize 
when regrouping is necessary.
I can add and subtract 
sums to 20 and dif-ferences from 20, and I relate addition and subtraction facts.
Examples:8 + 7 = 8 + what number = 15October–November Same as above I can solve multipli-
cation and division problems.
I can apply addition 
and subtraction skills to multistep problems involving multiple operations.
I can solve problems using combinations of coins and bills.1¢
 25¢ 10¢
$1 $5
Example: What is the 
total value?
$6.06$6.36$6.26I know the value of 
bills and coins.
I can add coins and 
bills together.
I know symbols to use 
when writing money.December Same as above I can create budgets for my classroom and determine how much money would be necessary to pur -
chase supplies.
Source: © 2013 by Austin Buffum, Mike Mattos, and Chris Weber. Used with permission.
page 2 of 2